Our team was able to collaborate with each other successfully, working with one another and efficiently getting our tasks done. The communication between us was great and we never had any conflict, which made working together so easy. Our group worked very well with one another as everyone was able to communicate their ideas freely and acknowledge each member's point of view. Each individual member was able to complete the allocated task given by the group which then the individual members to update the group on progress or the completed work at the next meeting. The interview conducted by our team members helped us understand more of the IT industry and jobs expectations we may have. What surprised most of the group members was the ability of each individual to work together as a group in order to complete the assignment to the best of our ability and also create friendship bonds. One thing that could be improved was the communication between one of our members. There was a mix up where we had been contacting a librarian from RMIT Vietnam, thinking that it was our team member due to their shared name. The librarian continued to tell us that he would be of assistance so we assumed he was in our team to help get resources and learning material. This led to confusion for the past few weeks but eventually we found out that the real team member was actually a student, who reached out to us in Google Docs. Due to this incident, we were able to acknowledge our mistake and clear it up, welcoming the member to the team and allocating any tasks that need to be completed for them to contribute to the group. This was a learning experience for us, teaching us that we should always double check each member’s emails. In regard to GitHub, it was very confusing initially. As we continued to use it, the easier it became to understand. Though, our group believes that the GitHub contribution branches are not a good reflection of our individual contributions as Hien does not have a contribution branch on GitHub due to the certain incident, however he was able to still contribute to the assignment though external sources. Our group collaborated through Microsoft Teams and external sources, where most of the work was done over the external source, which was then copied over to the GitHub branch where we were able to combine our work to our final copy. It is a bit tedious and many errors would occur, making it difficult and frustrating to use. Overall, our group has worked well together and have put in our best effort which can be seen through the collaboration of the members, communication and seeking help and completing the task that is given to the best of their ability.
