Data encryption is the translation of data into an encoded form, allowing access only to those with a secret key or password. This is an effective method to securely store data, as its appearance becomes unreadable to unwanted entities or people. Currency is a ‘medium of exchange’ issued by the government, allowing us to purchase the things we want and need, additionally, providing the services for a up and running society. Combining the two, we get Cryptocurrency. Thus, cryptocurrency exists as an encrypted form of currency in the digital world, issued by no one. However, this would not be possible without blockchain technology and its ability to decentralise all cryptocurrency.
Blockchain technology works by transacting data on all computers connected to one network, rather than on a single server. For example, banks operate on a client to server database, where all information is stored in one place. This has its disadvantages, where data can be changed, servers can be hacked, and currency can be transferred. With blockchain technology, data appears on all computers, which cannot be changed or hacked as all network participants need to give permission. How blockchain works is that, for every new transaction in a blockchain, a new block is created, which is then added to the network after being checked by a majority of system nodes, or, computers.
In the creation of a block, a ‘hash’ is generated thanks to a cryptographic hashing algorithm, enabling the identification of each block in a blockchain structure. The hash assists in detecting change within the block and is the main factor of security in blockchain technology. So, in the event of a hacking attempt, the blocks will have incorrect information thus invalidating the entire blockchain system. This technology makes it impossible to hack the system, as it is the most transparent and secure. Everything is done anonymously, and transactions become irreversible forever. No other technology can do this, which is what makes blockchains so intriguing.
Since the creation of cryptocurrency and blockchain technology in 2009, its popularity has grown larger than ever in an attempt to solve the ‘double-spending problem’, which has been gaining attention from everyone around the world, especially governments. Since the government controls our currency, there is an underlying threat they face. Due to the heavily secured nature of blockchain technology, officials face the issue  that is, allowing ordinary individuals to have complete control over their money. Because of this, we expect in the near future, involvement of governments and blockchain technology. 
In the coming years, cryptocurrency will become the new norm as the future advances. New currencies will start emerging and the numbers will continue to rise as more people adopt this new technology. This complex form of currency is revolutionary and can benefit us. Times are changing and the acceptance of that will allow our society to grow bigger and better. However, with the good comes the bad, and this is shown in the mining aspect of cryptocurrency.
The process of mining cryptocurrency uses a considerable amount of energy. Mining involves solving complex tasks in order to obtain new blocks, which requires extremely powerful hardware. As time passes, the complexity of these tasks increases, resulting in constant hardware upgrades. A concern in this is that cryptocurrency needs a lot of energy to mine, so with a gain of popularity, is a gain in difficulty to mine. Therefore, value increases and more people will use more computing power. There is a lot of energy waste and use. As coal and other fossil fuels are a major source of our electricity, cryptocurrency mining becomes an additional contributor to climate change, threatening the progress towards a low carbon economy. 
Cryptocurrency and blockchain technology do not necessarily negatively impact people. If anything, it will mostly benefit them. However, as a result of this new adoption, banks and financial industries, including those with a career in these jobs, may become disrupted in the coming years. In order to stay relevant, they will need to introduce this technology into their field. Individuals will begin to open their own cryptocurrency bank accounts, crypto debit cards will become a norm and cryptocurrencies will be withdrawn from ATM’s instead of money. The more people to use this cryptocurrency, the more reason there is for a business in this field to open. Furthermore, transaction processes will become instant, so to stay in brand, the banking and finance industry needs to implement  this new technology. 
Besides the banking and financing industries, other regular companies and business will likely accept cryptocurrency as a form of payment, but despite its popularity, the general public is not completely aware of this new technology. It will take years to have a fully crypto and blockchain tech future. As of now, regular individuals are able to mine and collect cryptocurrency while it is still worth its valuable. The future is near and as the crypto community grows, society will near a better financial system.
