TOPIC: MEDICAL INFORMATICS / REMOTE MEDICINE

What does it do?
  Medical informatics is the combination of health care, information science and computer science where it is the intersection of healthcare and technology.  It focuses on how technology collects data to then be used to improve healthcare and the patient’s outcome by using technology to help health the patient. They can use the data collected from patients to then be used to help decision making for hospitality in order to push through research and improve healthcare. The evolution of medical informatics is separated into 5 periods. The first period occurred during 1955-1965 where researches decided to test and experiment technology with the medical field which led to an invention of a biomedical program which helped assisted biostatistics. About 40 million dollars were given to research in this field which allowed technology to rapidly improve. The next period, 1965-1975, near the 70s countries in Europe were using the technology information systems which are installed in computers and processers were upgraded overtime into micro technology. Two researchers, Godfrey N. Hounsfield and Allan M. Cormack received the first noble prize in 1979 for the achievements in the medical informatics field. During the middle period from 1975 – 1985, significant growth in technology which positively affected the health care system as more workers attained more education in this field as the technology has also furthered improved. The technology that has changed during this period was the memory storages as the capacity of information that could be stored expanded the combination of technology in the medical field. During the fourth period, an enhancement in the medical informatic fields occurred as the research became more intense and new standards have been reached and more knowledge were known for workers studying in the field. As technology advanced, medical centers have also increased in capacity and supported most of the newer technology that were introduced which has helped improve the health care around the globe. Up until the final period, technology has simultaneously progressed overtime along with the growth of medical informatics. Further investment in medical informatics allowed growth in technology to be used in the medical field informatics drastically improved the hardware and software technologies which has created high tech computers to be used. As technology is evolving over time and we are finding more ways to improve the technology we have such as computers and the amount of data that can be stored as technology is required to assist and help improve the healthcare system. If we are able to create even faster computers by improving the components in the computer and increase the data storage and reduce the size (example is a hard drive being able to store more data but the size has decreased which can further boost the technology we have nowadays. An improvement in Artificial Intelligence may occur which can create both positive and negative effects on society. The positive effects on medical informatics is that it will be very convenient as it can be easily used, reduce the amount of errors that could have been done by humans and it also accomplish tasks given without having to rely on emotion or stamina apart from where they need to be recharged or replaced. However, some negative effects of AI on medical informatics can be that current cost will be very expensive where healthcare system cannot possibly afford to invest into AI, the AI robots will take away jobs but these robots will not replace jobs as humans possess values such as decision making and emotions as the elderly will prefer to be assisted by a human being rather than a robot as they will not feel lonely which ties in on emotion. 

What is the likely impact?
  The potential impact of research and development in medical informatics field is that it will help boost medical hospitality section such as nursing home, hospitals, etc. As further there is further investment in the medical informatics and remote medicine field, we can help aid patients that need help no matter what type of environment they live in, rural or metropolitan, having equality across humans no matter if you are in a poor or healthy condition. As technology advances, they can receive and transfer information at a rapid rate, which allows nurses and doctors to gain and use the information faster than before. This allows them to use the data gathered and make decisions faster than before in order to help aid the patient in need which will result in patients being able to recover faster or more patients surviving which will boost the effectiveness of healthcare around the globe. As the technology becomes more developed, more places in the medical hospitality can access and use it which will allow better accessibility to those who live in rural areas where this technology may not be provided. Jobs will not be replaced as the technology will require human-to-human interaction to help aid patients as humans will prefer not to be helped by a robot, however technology will be replaced as more investment occurs in this field, places like nursing homes, etc., must invest money into the technology to gather the data from patients and see what is required to done to solve the problem and provide a service to the patient, not robots. The result of further research between the intersection of information technology and medical field can help benefit society as everyone, no matter where you live or what has occurred, can have accessible developed healthcare that can help assist or solve their problems through new technology.

How will this affect you?
  Personally, I do not get severe injuries that I need to go to the hospital and get it checked out and recover. However, if I do get injured badly, then the new technology can help create a much faster recovery compared to before as technology advances. It will positively impact my family, friends and members in society as everyone in the community has access to these goods and services which will boost recovery and potentially save more patients through brand new technology in the medical field. In my own perspective, I would very happy if this occurs because as technology becomes faster, more convenient and more developed, it can save the some of the population than before. If more research occurs in medical informatics and remote medicine, it can assist workers such as nurses, doctors, surgeons to help know what the problem is occurring to the patient and how it can the patient can be recovered. This type of technology will not cause jobs losses but will ease the pressure off workers in the medical field as the technology speeds up the process of obtaining and analyzing information at a rapid rate which can allow these workers to tend other patients that are in need. In summary, information can be gathered from the patient faster which allows workers in the medical field to analyze the information to create an understanding of what the problem is for the patient and how can it be solved. This will allow more time to be spent on other patients that are in need whereby technology has further advanced in the medical field.
