The Smart Mirror acts as a personal assistant, performing tasks for users via voice command. Additionally, users will be able to control the Smart Mirror from their paired devices such as smartwatches or mobiles in the event of them being out of the vocal range. The user commands trigger readily available features that will allow users to go by their daily lives with convenience. These features include:
Calendar and reminders: A calendar application lets users organise their days with a personalised schedule, allowing them to plan events, set reminders and stay organised. Since the mirror is synced with devices, reminders are also sent to their mobiles and smartwatches.
News: Local news reports can be viewed upon user command, which is displayed in text form or video.
Weather: The Smart Mirror will have an in-built weather forecast that will also display warnings in case of emergencies, such as floods, earthquakes, extreme wind or extremely hot weather. Additionally, room temperature is displayed.
Health/Fitness and Sleep analysis: Users can track their health, fitness and sleep on their devices, which the Smart Mirror can access to give feedback and recommendations to assist in reaching goals and optimal health/fitness.
Music: The user is able to play music via their preferred music app, as well as turn on their connected speakers.
Security control: If the user has smart security cameras, they will be able to access them through the Smart Mirror. They can view their security cameras within the mirror and if it believes there is suspicious activity, will alert the user. Users can then choose to call emergency services or ignore the alert. 
Smartwatch feature: A special feature included is a smartwatch feature. The smartwatch tracks the user's heart rate and is able to understand their emotions and health. From this, the watch will ask permission to play music on the Smart Mirror based on their mood. Another benefit is health tracking. If the user shows signs of emergency, it will alert emergency contacts on their mobile as well as alert the Smart Mirror, which will display the user’s location for other users at home to see.
